# Data Description

 My research in robotics centers on child-robot interaction and how robots can help children with motor impairments receive the benefits that come with motor exploration and play. For children with motor impairments, they tend to be delayed in motor milestones such as crawling, walking, and running but an assistive robot may be a fun and more ideal way for children to practice motor skills. Studies have shown that treadmill training or similar types of interventions can promote early motor skills for children with motor impairments, but they can be boring and quite intense. Our assistive robot is combined with a body-weight support harness which allows supported but free motion for a child in a play space. The two combined means the assistive robot is a motivational tool that the child can chase around and play with while practicing crawling and walking skills. Our main research question is how well can an assistive robot encourage motor exploration and development in children with or without disabilities?

  For my studies, we will be collecting several forms of human-subjects data that I will describe and list out:
1.	Video data recording on children interacting with the robot during studies. This will usually be in the form of overhead video on a GoPro of a play space where a child and robot will be interacting. The video files will be collected and stored for post-hoc analysis. 
2.	Accelerometer data on devices worn by children during the studies. This data is stored in the device during the study and then uploaded later to the software and saved as spreadsheet files. We will analyze the data after each study. 
3.	Qualitative data. We will be collecting survey and interview data during studies. We will collect survey data in the form of printed forms that will be filled out during each play session by a parent or guardian. Interviews will be conducted in a semi-structured fashion and captured either with audio or video recordings which will be stored and analyzed later. 
  In addition to human-subjects data, we also will be collecting data on the robot while it is moving which will be used to further develop the algorithms which control the robot. This data will be in the form of logs of each action the robot performs and when so that it can be matched up to video data. Additionally, we have simulated data of child-robot interaction which generate text files of each action performed and how successful it was at encouraging motion in the simulated child.

* For the video data, we anticipate collecting 10-50 GBs.
* For the accelerometer data, we anticipate collecting up to 1-5 GBs worth of data.
* For the survey data, we expect to collect in the 1-10 GBs range of data due mainly to the interview recordings. The rest will be low impact.
* For data collected by the robot and simulated data, we anticipate about 100 MB worth of data.

# Roles and Responsibilities

The PI is responsible for generation and implementation of the DMP as they were the grant writer and had to include that as part of the grant proposal. They would have had assistance from co-PI’s to help ensure the plan made sense, protected data appropriately as we are working with human subjects, and was carried out effectively. The rest of the roles fall mainly to the graduate students and their undergraduates that they mentor. The graduate students, including myself and 2 others, are responsible for data collection/generation, data organization, archiving and preservation, protection of sensitive and protected data, data analysis, software creation and maintenance and instrumentation maintenance. If one of the graduate students or researchers involved with the project should leave, the responsibility falls to the PI to ensure the data is still maintained properly and that the project continues to move forward.

The video data that I will collect will be sensitive according to the definition provided by Oregon State (Identifiable Human Subjects Research Data designated as Level 2 by the IRB). Our plan is to ensure that any data that is collected is secured and can only be accessed by members of the research team who have gone through the required IRB trainings to ensure they can be responsible with the data. Through our informed consent form, parents/guardians decide if we are able to use any data which is collected to be shown in public venues (such as a conference presentation) and to allow the data to be stored for public use. Any video data that is used in video can be easily de-identified if requested by parents on the informed consent.

Accelerometer data is easily de-identifiable and follows the same protocol as the video data. If informed consent is given, then the data can be used in public venues and potentially stored in a public repository for researchers to access. 

Survey and interview data will always be de-identified before use to ensure anonymity of the participant. This data will not be made publically available but will be used in paper publications.

All data will be stored in a protected Box server which can only be accessed by members of the research team who have gone through the appropriate trainings and received the IRB certifications that allow access to sensitive data. Only Oregon State students and faculty that are approved can access the data and after someone leaves the university, they will be unable to access the data. Some data may be stored temporarily on local computers while being transferred over, but laptops will be secured via password and not shared with others outside of the research team. There will also be password protected hard drives which will also contain copies of the video data as backups.

There will be 2 copies of the data. One will be stored in Box as the primary while the backups will live on password protected hard drives. This process is manual and the management of the Box is also manual. We will be using no programs specifically to backup the data, only manual file transferring. Video data is analyzed manually by expert coders. The data they generate as notes are stored in spreadsheets which will be stored in the same Box server and in the protected hard drives. Some of the video data will be analyzed using overhead tracking software. The data generated from this method is also stored in spreadsheets and will be stored in the same Box server and in the protected hard drives. The process for storage of the analyzed data will also be manual. We will be using a cloud system but the primary manager is the PI. The PI will ensure that data is transferred over through a graduate or undergraduate student when one leaves. This ensures that the data isn’t lost to an account that is deleted by the OSU system. 

# Data Standards and Metadata

A. Data will be organized and labeled the same in both the Box and local storage. At a high level, the project can be broken down by paper and grant related to the paper (i.e. Caplan or Infant Behavior Modeling). Within each high-level folder, subdivisions breaking down individual papers related to the grant will be useful. Witin each paper, files can be separated into elements such as data or figures or reading. Files will be labeled with date of creation and descriptive text of the file. Because we collect video files as well, data will be stored by date and camera location with descriptive text labeling which aspect of the study the video is from (e.g., baseline_session1_front_canon).

B. Version control will be done through Github for all software. This will allow software to be more easily accessible. Branches will only be created if the same data or tool is being used for a different purpose and will differ significantly from the original structure. Video data will have trimmed versions of each data which cut out any extra time before or after the study time period. These versions will be stored in a separate folder as the finalized videos for data analysis and will follow the same naming convention. Video clips and gifs which are to be used in presentations may be cut out from videos and will be stored in the same location but as part of the paper folders. Accelerometer and survey data will not change and therefore are not considered in version control. 

C. Direct metadata other than video metadata will not be collected but documentation of study design and methods will be stored as part of each study. Each design document is created before the study and stored for future reference. The video metadata is used for reference when writing papers which involve recording or use of video data but it is not an essential aspect. 

D. Video metadata will be collected from the camera using Wondershare Filmora or similar video software. Only necessary aspects are recording framerate and date/time of recording. Other metadata such as study design are stored in word or Google Drive documents. 

# Storage and Security

This section will discuss the storage of each type of data and how this data is secured from unauthorized access. 

- The primary data collected is sensitive video data as defined by the Oregon State standards for sensitive data. Our informed consent has a designation which explains to the parent or guardian that the collected data may be shared publically in presentations or papers and could be made publically available if they choose to allow it. Initially, video data will not be made publically available but we will use clips and images in presentations for participants which have had informed consent given. The restricted data is stored on a Box secure server and may only be accessed by members of the team who have completed the necessary IRB training for working with human participants. This access is controlled by the research team, including myself and the PI. We will make some of the video data publically available as a dataset which can be used by others in the future but only for participants whose parent or guardian signed off on the informed consent. When working with data for children with disabilities, this data will be anonymized before it is made publically available.

- Accelerometer data will be made publically available in the future as it can be easily anonymized. It will still be dependent on the informed consent signed by the participant's parent or guardian. This data may be used for machine learning purposes by a research team and making it publically available for benchmarking is important to the research community. This data will be made available in Github with the methods for analyzing the data. 

- Subjective data such as interview and survey data will not be made public and is only accessible by members of the research team who have completed the necessary IRB training for working with human participants. We will publish quotes from interview data in research publications but they will always be anonymized. 

# Access and Data Sharing

Some of my data will be made public so I will discuss each type and what factors are needed to ensure the data is safe:

- Video data will be made public after primary data collection is completed in 2-3 years as part of a dataset which can be used by other researchers. The video data will be made available in Databrary under their authorized access framework. Until this data is made public (which will be only after the primary data collection has been completed), this data can only be accessed by members of the research team who have been certified in the necessary IRB trainings. Trimmed video content will be the version which is made public so that it will not contain extraneous data before or after the study time.

- The video data will be made publically available as video data in the Databrary repository. We will use the authorized access framework for our video data as it is sensitive data. Only data which has been signed through our informed consent by parent or guardian will be made publically availale. For children with disabilities, the video data will need to be anonymized to ensure security before it is made publically available. 

- Accelerometer data is much easier to anonymize and will be made publically available in a Github repository. As this kind of data is commonly used in machine learning, making it publically available is important for the research community. We will continue to follow the same informed consent and only publish anonymized data which was originally approved by a parent or guardian. This data will be made available as csv spreadsheets as this is the most common method for storage and use of this data. 

- Subjective data such as interview and survey data will not be made publically available as a whole, even if anonymized. The questions which were asked in an interview or surveys used are likely to be made available so that the data can be reproducible but the responses will only be used in the context of a research publication. Any direct references to quotes from an interview or survey will be anonymized and made available through the research publication. Aggregate subjective data will again be made available in the context of a research publication.

# Archiving and Preservation

Data will stored and preserved depending on the type of data. Different guidelines will be used for different types of data:

- Video and accelerometer data will be collected and archived in a secure OSU Box server for at least 5 years post-collection. It will additionally be stored on a local secure password-protected hard drive which is maintained by my collaborators in Kinesiology. This ensures the data can be accessed in two secure locations for future data analysis and referred back to if needed. The video data is stored as MP4 files and the accelerometer data is stored as csv spreadsheets. The formats are the same in both locations.

- Survey and interview data is stored locally on a paper copy which is located behind two locked doors in the research lab. Only specific members of the research team have the ability to get into the rooms during off-hours and if the room is open, there is always a member of the research team there. This data will be transcribed into the same secure OSU Box server as spreadsheet and text data and archived for the same amount of time. 

- Access to the archived data is maintained by the PI and research team leads as identified by the PI. Only research team members who have completed the necessary IRB trainings may access the data and are unable to add new members. As research team leads graduate and move on, it is up to the PI to allocate new management of access to the data. 
